---
layout: post
title: "🕹 Getting Payback from Generative AI: webinar summary"
date: 2025-02-21 16:34:02 -0600
categories: artificial-intelligence
---

Last wee I was able to attend to a webinar called "Getting Payback from Generative AI" and I wanted to share with you
the main points that were discussed. It was hosted by the MIT Sloan Management Review and presented
by [Rama Ramakrishnan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ramar/).

This post is basically The notes I took during the webinar and somme recommendations as conclusion for small companies
that want to start with LLMs and Generative AI, so I hope you find them useful.

**How LLMs Work:**

- LLMs work like "auto complete" systems that predict next words based on probabilities.
- They generate text by sampling from many possible next words, so answers can vary each time.
- They sometimes make mistakes or produce wrong information.

**Three Main Methods to Adapt LLMs for Business:**

- _Prompting_: Ass simple instructions to the model with a clear text. This approach is good for simple, everyday tasks.
- _Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)_: Adding relevant data and context to the prompt for more accurate and current
  answers.
- _Instruction Fine-Tuning_: Train the model with domain-specific examples for tasks that need high accuracy.

**The Generative AI Cost Equation:**

- Compare the cost of using generative AI (including adaptation and error checking) with the cost of doing the work
  without AI.
- Consider the cost of mistakes (legal, reputation, ...) and make sure your business can handle it.

**Building and Evaluating Tests:**

- Divide complex workflows into smaller tasks.
- Test LLM solutions on a small scale and evaluate their performance.
- Iterate and improve, keeping a human in the loop for error checking.

**Value and Limitations:**

- LLMs can improve efficiency in tasks. For example writing, coding, customer support, and marketing.
- They are not perfect; they might produce errors or miss logical steps, evaluation and error correction is
  needed.
- As technology improves, costs of adaptation and usage are decreasing, making LLMs more attractive over time.

### Suggestions for Small Companies to Get Payback from Generative AI

- Start Small:
  Identify simple tasks (drafting emails, generating social media posts, or data summaries) where LLMs can be
  used with simple prompting.

- Use Ready-Made Solutions:
  Consider commercially available AI tools that already include advanced prompting and error-checking mechanisms.

- Test Projects:
  Run small tests for specific tasks before scaling up. This helps understand benefits and uncover issues.

- Break Down Processes:
  Divide business processes into smaller tasks, so you can apply AI where it is most efficient.

- Evaluate Costs Carefully:
    - Compare the cost of using AI (including adaptation and error checking) with your current process costs.
    - Consider the risk or "cost of a miss" for tasks where errors can be expensive.

- Keep Human in the Process:
  Always include a human in the loop, to review and correct AI outputs.

- Invest in Prompt Engineering:
  Spend time on designing clear instructions to get the best possible output from the AI.

- Revisit and Iterate:
    - Regularly review the performance as LLM technology improves and costs decrease.
    - Update your processes and tests based on new capabilities and insights.

- Explore Open-Source Options:
  Look into open-source LLMs that might be adapted to your needs with lower investment.

If you are interested in the topic and want to dive a little more on it, I recommend you to check this
paper [A Practical Guide to Gaining Value From LLMs](https://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/marketing.mitsmr.com/events/MITSMR-Webinar-Ramakrishnan-2025-Prereading.pdf)
that the author share with the participants.
